---
title: "Panasonic G6 to Panasonic G85: Worth the upgrade?"
date: 2017-06-10 08:30:00 Z
tags:
    - tech
    - photography
image: /assets/img/Cheeto%20Sun%20Blood%20Fest%20at%20the%20crown/cover.jpg
---

Released in 2013, the Panasonic G6 was popular with people who wanted decent video quality but didn't want to fork out the extra for a more pro-oriented GH series camera such as the GH3.

Panasonic's Micro Four Thirds camera's are often considered "hybrid cameras" which are designed for both video and stills. This holds true for the most part, and compared to other similarly priced DSLRs Panasonics camera tend to offer more video focused features. Alongside full manual controls in video the G6 for example has a microphone input.

As someone who does both photography and videography the G6 seemed perfect to me. It served me well for a number of years and I only really had a few complaints:

* High ISO performance isn't great: Anything about ISO 1600 is barely usable.
* Handling is a little weird: Shutter speed, aperture, and especially focus adjustment feels laggy and the "rocker" style switch isn't a great replacement for a real dial.
* The SD card slot is in an annoying place

So why upgrade to the G85? To me the G85 is the first major update to Panasonics budget line since the G6. The G7 was more of an incremental upgrade, improving the handling somewhat and adding 4k video. The G85 adds in-body stabilisation which, to me, is a game changer, and enough to feel like it's worth upgrading.

But was it?

# The G85

## Handling

The handling is vastly improved. Gone is tne is the lag in the menu's and the body is much chunkier and nicer to hold. There's two dedicated dials now, one of which has a button on it to switch it's function. This means I can have shutter speed and aperture at my fingertips, and ISO not far off. There's a dedicated drive mode dial which I'm not too bothered about, I'd prefer a dedicated ISO dial to be honest. The SD card has a dedicated flap on the side now too, which is nice.

There were also numerous little improvements to the design. The sensor which detects your eye and turns on the EVF is now above the viewfinder instead of below so you're less likely to accidentally trigger it when operating the touchscreen. The buttons on the back have been moved so they're stacked vertically instead of horizontally so you're less likely to accidentally trigger something with your palm. These are all things which I didn't know I wanted, but now that I've got them operating the G6 feels clunky and error prone.

## Image quality

Image quality isn't hugely improved, but it is improved. The image is definitely cleaner at high ISOs but I still wouldn't want to go past ISO 1600. Sharpness is also improved somewhat. Overall color rendering is different too, it tends to auto white balance a little warmer and expose slightly brighter.

## Stabilisation

Stabilisation is just awesome. It takes away all the jittery handheld stuff which makes it much nicer to watch.